what is the goal of a generative adversarial network (gan) ?
produce new data which looks like the dataset it was trained on.


what are some useful metrics to evaluate a gan's performance
precision
recall


we have 1000 images of cats and 1000 images of dogs. let's build a "cat-dog detector." which type of machine learning algorithms would you use to solve this problem?
supervised learning


which of the following is a true statement about modules used in your code?
create more modules does't necessarily result in more effective modularation.


in many good text editors, the pep8 style guideline for line character limit is given. what is this guideline?
79 chracteres


identify the correct statements taht describe the key difference(s) between unit and integration tests.
unit tests examine one unit at a time
integration tests examines how various parts of the code and different functions interact together. 
unit tests do not test functionality that spans different implementation units.


in the following code, `new_nd = ND('Data','AWS', 'schoalrship', 3)`, what is ND?
class


which of these is a hyperparameter?
learning rate
loss


in any prediction task, the process of "fitting" a model to the data observed in the training process can be best described as...
making use of all observations available to create a model, then using distance or other measures to assess how wellt he model characterizes or "fits" its data.


"The following descriptions best describe what: 1. Value that has to be assigned manually. 2. The K value in K-nearrest-neighbore is an example of this. 3. Value is set before the training."
model parameter


the acryonym dry stands for 
dont repeat yourself


in a generative adversarial network (gan), which of the following is true?
the generator creates data. the discriminator classifies data.


what are some considerations to keep in mind when doing code review?
is minimal documentatoin provided for this project?
can we reduce the number of calculatoins in this step?
hwo do i reduce the number of iterations in a loop?
do function use effective docstrings?
how can i vectorize this loop?


which of the following is true about python?
you can access attributes in python the same way as c++ and java.
python allows you to access attributses directly
python was not design to use get and set methods to access attributes


which of the following is a technique you can use to make your code easier to maintain?
give variable meaningful names.


which type of deep learning model can be used to create blueprints for buildings into photos of finished buildings?
generative adverserial networks


the following descriptions best describe what:
1. value outputed from the training process.
2. value estimated by the model.
3. value not set by the ml practitioner.

model parameter


which of the following describes code that is clean?
readable
simple
concise


after a gan is trained, which parts of it are used to generate new outputs from data?
generator


is __init__ a magic method
true


which of the following statements are correct?
a perceptron is a neural-like element of a neural network which takse an input signal from all percetrons of the prior layer.
backpropation feeds the signals back through the nework to make adjustments on the weights in each layer based on teh ground truth.


check the boxes next to the statements that are true.
any changes to a parent class maniest in its children.
inheritance encourages code reusability.
inheritance can make object-oriented programs more efficient to write.


when running a cell on the sagemaker notebook instance, where is the code being executed?
the UI interface runs on yoru local browser while the actual computation happens on the aws cloud


which of the following best characterizes why computer vision is such a sweet spot for deep learning?
images are easy to label and therefore more data can be procured more quickly.
the clarify of visual features are excellent inputs to deep learning models.
the inherent high dimensinality of image data lends itself to the use of neural networks.


identify the true statements about gradient descent.
it is an optimization algorithm


finish the following sentence: generally, if there's an "and" in your function name, consider renaming.


how do the gans in the aws deepcomposer notebook demo (https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-deepcomposer-samples/tree/master/Lab%202) represent and interpret music?
music is represented as severla two-dimensional matrics


is python a procedural or object oriented programign langauge?
both


what does it mean when a loss function reaches convergence?
the function value has stablized over many epochs.
teh value of the function maybe at 0.


which of the following are true about the gan structure?
discrimanitor is a classifier
the discrimantor trinas on the distinguishing fake data from real data.
the generator can create fake data


what are the best practices for building out good unit tests?
think about all edge cases before you write the functino.
have mutlpe asserts statements to test all edge cases.
write a test function to check for iplemention given all parameters.
run a test funciton to see if your funciton works in all edge cases.


which one of the following statements is incorrect?
-> when fitting the line, we are tring to maximimize the distance of each poitn to the line.


what kind of tasks are the following two cases respectively - regression or classification?
1. a phamaceutical company wants to predict whether patients have type 2 diabetes or not based on their blood reports using machine learning.
2. a financial institutoin wants to predict the net revenue of a company based on the slaes in the next five years using machine learning.
-> 1. cassfification. 2 regression


choose all of the following which are benefits of using meaninginfull names in writing clean code.
-> cleary differentiate names
-> be descriptive and imply type


why is it useful to track loss while the model is being trained?
-> loss dictates how effective the model is
-> loss can help understand how much the model is changing per iteration. when it converges, that's an indicator that further training will have little benefit.
-> loss is only useful as a final metric. it should not be evaluated while the model is being trained.


i need to run a python package with the following module in the directory:
1. genrealdistribution.py
2. mydata.csv
my directory is ready to install the package.
-> false


in a piano roll, what value does the y-axis capture?
-> key


in the following code, `new_nd = change_length(2)`, what is change_length?
-> method


making your code modular makes it easier to:
-> write less code
-> collaborate on code
-> reuse your code 


what is a machine learning algorithm doing when its training a model?
-> adjusting model parameters in an attempt to optimize some objective function (ex: minizmie loss).
-> it is calculating random values until it deices it wants to stop.


what service does aws deepcomposer use for hosting machine learning inference?
-> aws lambda
-> amazon sagemaker


identify the true statements about object-oriented programming.
-> objects has characteriestics.
-> objects has methods.
-> objects have attributes.
-> objects do actions


why might a lower learning rate be superior?
-> more input data will be seen.
-> more likely to find the optimal weights within the search space.
-> explore a wider set of model weights


is this a good log message? `2018-08-19|scheudler|error| samplecocom.jobs.scheudledtasks|scheduledjob'id abc23' faield due to binary compatiblities`
-> false


true or false: functions should bring multiple actions together sot hey are more efficeintly run.
-> false


which of the following are reasons for why testing is required for data science coding tasks?
-> data pipelines may not be working properly.
-> model features may be used inappropriately.
-> etl will alwys catch encoding errors.
-> problems in data science tasks are not easily detectable.


which of the following is a type of documentation that you can use to make your code easier to navigate?
-> in-line comments


which of the following best describes deep learning?
-> deep learning uses the neural network algorithm to backpropogate across its perceptrons
-> deep learning is a state of the art process for modeling predictive tasks of extraordinary high dimensionality.


which of the following is an important reason to refactor your code?
-> stops you from making additional mistakes in the future
-> improve internal structure

