date start : 28 february 2020



3.1 introduction and learning objectives
---------------------------------------
Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.

Google's Borg system is a cluster manager that runs hundreds of thousands of jobs, from many thousands of different applications, across a number of clusters each with up to tens of thousands of machines



3.2 kubernetes
---------------------------------------
Kubernetes offers a very rich set of features for container orchestration. Some of its fully supported features are:

Automatic bin packing
Kubernetes automatically schedules containers based on resource needs and constraints, to maximize utilization without sacrificing availability.
Self-healing
Kubernetes automatically replaces and reschedules containers from failed nodes. It kills and restarts containers unresponsive to health checks, based on existing rules/policy. It also prevents traffic from being routed to unresponsive containers.
Horizontal scaling
With Kubernetes applications are scaled manually or automatically based on CPU or custom metrics utilization.
Service discovery and Load balancing
Containers receive their own IP addresses from Kubernetes, white it assigns a single Domain Name System (DNS) name to a set of containers to aid in load-balancing requests across the containers of the set.



Some other fully supported Kubernetes features are:

Automated rollouts and rollbacks
Kubernetes seamlessly rolls out and rolls back application updates and configuration changes, constantly monitoring the application's health to prevent any downtime.
Secret and configuration management
Kubernetes manages secrets and configuration details for an application separately from the container image, in order to avoid a re-build of the respective image. Secrets consist of confidential information passed to the application without revealing the sensitive content to the stack configuration, like on GitHub.
Storage orchestration
Kubernetes automatically mounts software-defined storage (SDS) solutions to containers from local storage, external cloud providers, or network storage systems.
Batch execution
Kubernetes supports batch execution, long-running jobs, and replaces failed containers.







3.3 knowledge check
---------------------------------------



3.4 leanring objectives (review)
---------------------------------------



