date start : 5 january 2023


3.1 What's Next?
---------------------------------------
Congratulations on all the great work you’ve done so far!

The Nanodegree Program Scholarship phase of this program helps you further advance your skills in your track and empower yourself to take on the jobs of the future. To apply for the Nanodegree Program Scholarship phase, you need to complete the Final Assessment.

The Final Assessment will test the relevant skills you learned in the Challenge phase of your track. After taking the assessment, you will be eligible for consideration into the Nanodegree phase! The selection process into the Nanodegree phase is very competitive , so make sure you're ready for that Final Assessment when the date approaches.

The Final Assessment will take place on February 20, 2023 at 00:00am CET and close on February 21, 2023 at 11:59pm CET. The table below shows important dates about the assessment and the Nanodegree Program scholarship. The assessment details and instructions are found in the next lesson.

Nanodegree Program Selection Criteria
Selection into the second phase of the program, the Nanodegree program phase, is highly competitive. You will be eligible for the full Nanodegree program once you fulfill the criteria below:

* 100% Course completion of the Challenge Course by Feb 13, 2023. This includes: lessons, videos, and quizzes.
* Passing the Final Assessment.

Students who score highest on the Final Assessment are also prioritized for selection into the Nanodegree phase.



2.2 Final Asessment Instructions
---------------------------------------
Here is what you need to know about the Final Assessment:


The Final Assessment will be opened on Feb 20 at 00:00 am CET for all learners, and will close on Feb 21 at 11:59pm CET. There will be no other dates available to sit for the assessment.

The assessment is completely online.

Learners who complete the Challenge phase successfully will receive a link to take the assessment via email once the assessment is available on Feb 20 at 00:00 am CET.

The Final Assessment link expires at the exact time on the close date mentioned above. Therefore, we recommend eligible students to start their Final Assessment well in advance of the link expiration time as the assessment will terminate automatically by this time, and it will be closed, whether you were able to answer all the questions by then or not.

The Final Assessment can be attempted only once. So, please prepare well before the assessment.

The Final Assessment duration is 60 minutes from the moment you start the assessment. You’ll be able to see a countdown timer on the screen. Please note that you can’t pause the time, and once the timer reaches 0 seconds, the assessment will be automatically submitted whether you’re able to answer all the questions or not. So, make sure to start the assessment when you’re ready for that.

The assessment consists of 20 multiple choice questions (MCQs) about your track content.

This assessment tests your knowledge in the track you completed in the Challenge phase.

You cannot return to any previous question once you have answered or skipped it. So, make sure you take the time to thoughtfully answer each question.

Learners who get selected will be notified about their selection status for a Udacity Nanodegree Program Scholarship. This status update will be sent directly to participants via email on Mar 9, 2023. Please make sure to check your inbox (and Spam and Promotions folders) frequently during this period.

If you are selected for the Nanodegree Program Scholarship, you’ll have access to the Nanodegree and in turn start the program on March 16, 2023.



