


1.1 Getting Started 
---------------------------------------
Getting Started
Introduction
This project requires you to utilize your HTML and CSS skills to build out a personal blog website, including custom images, layout, and styling. Along with webpage design considerations, you'll work to appropriately structure your files, as well as use proper CSS and HTML formatting & style.

Rubric
Your project will be evaluated by a Udacity code reviewer according to the Personal Blog Website project rubric. Please make sure to re-review the rubric for detailed project requirements prior to submission.

Starter Code?
In this project, you'll get to start from scratch! To complete the project, you are able to decide on the HTML and CSS files to include as part of your work, given that the end result is within the confines of the project rubric provided below. This should include, at minimum, HTML files related to:

the blog website
an example blog post
as well as any related CSS files for styling.

While it can be a bit intimidating to start from scratch for your first time, we have also provided some helpful hints on a later page to help you determine your Development Strategy for the project. If you are ready to get started though, we encourage you to skip the next section and figure it out on your own!

CSS, Website Layout, Website Components
Before moving forward, make sure you are comfortable with the content from the CSS, Website Layout, Website Components course. Ask yourself:

How do I create and structure HTML files?
How do I create and structure CSS files?
How can I utilize CSS to style my webpages?
How do I link CSS files to HTML files?
How can I import CSS files into another style file?
How can I use Flexbox and Grid to easily create a layout?
What is responsive web design and how can it further improve my webpage?


1.2 Example Blog Websites
---------------------------------------

Example Blog Websites
Here, we'll provide you with some examples of the final look of the blog website you will build as part of your project. Note that these use placeholder text, which you will also be allowed to utilize in the project instead of needing to type out all of your own blog posts (although you are certainly encouraged to do so!).

Note that while these examples include most, if not all, of the requirements under the project rubric, the exact layout and styling is completely up to you. The bottom of the rubric contains some extra ways to stand out, but customizing the layout & styling of your blog website is a great way to create a unique website of your own regardless.

Example 1
In the first example below, the website does not utilize a design system (which you do not need to use in the project, but it's one thing to consider as you build your front end skills).

Website

Example 2
In this example, the page does use a design system (which is included in the final screenshot). You should be able to notice the use of the design system's items on both the main blog website and on the example blog post. You can also check out Veritas, Udacity's design system (if you choose to implement one, yours does not need to be anywhere near as detailed).

Hopefully these examples help to get you thinking on what you want to build for your own personal blog website! If you need some additional tips to get started, read on for the next page on Development Strategy.




1.3 Development Strategy
---------------------------------------



1.4 A Note on Style Guides
---------------------------------------



1.5 Project Cheat Sheet
---------------------------------------



1.6 Submit project
---------------------------------------




