

5.2.1 Introduction to Webpack
---------------------------------------
Lesson Objectives
The objectives of this lesson are to:

1. Understand the role and necessity of webpack as a build tool
2. Install webpack, and get started with a Node/Express web app
3. Understand to use the major components of webpack - entry point, output, loaders, and plugins
4. Explain the use to two different modes - production and development. We will also learn to use webpack-dev-server in development mode.

Getting Started with Webpack
The webpack documentation describes itself this way:

At its core, webpack is a static module bundler for modern JavaScript applications.

But…what does that really mean?

This image from the Webpack website is a good visual.

The idea here is that on the left you have all the various asset file formats you will probably come across in a project. You might not recognize all the extensions, but just imagine that these are all your images, stylesheets, javascripts and more.

Webpack takes all the assets on the left and “bundles” or combines them into fewer files that are much easier to manage. Notice that multiple .js files on the left became one .js file on the right - that’s because the two files were combined into one large .js file.

Key Terms Used in the Video Above
1. Bootstrap is an open-source CSS library that helps to build responsive web sites, meaning the websites can adapt to the user's device (platform). Bootstrap library contains CSS and JavaScript-based design templates for different web page components. Refer to Bootstrap documentation for more details. Note that Bootstrap comprises a variety of components, two that the Instructor mentioned are tooltips, and modal.

2. Bootstrap Tooltip provides textual boxes that pop-up whenever we hover the mouse over a particular component or element. Refer a few Tooltip examples to have a better overview and usages. Note that the tooltip depends on third party library Popper.js, which in turn has its dependencies such as popper.min.js, and util.js.

3. Bootstrap Modal plugin adds dialogs to your site for lightboxes, user notifications, or any other component. They offer a variety of effects such as sliding, fading of the containing page, and scrolling. See a few examples here.

4. Animation library such as Parallax. Parallax is the type of animation effect where a component has a relative difference in the positioning on the web page. For example, an image that can seem to be moving when scrolling a web page is a Parallax. There are numerous libraries available in the market.

Quiz Question
￼
Based on what you know of Webpack so far, which of these tasks would NOT be performed by webpack:
All of the above could be done with webpack

Interview Question
Tell us how you have addressed an issue caused by conflicting asset files (or if you haven't experienced this first hand, tell us about a situation where this could happen). Examples could be styles conflicting with a third party stylesheet, or a bug caused by the order of javascript files.

use different naming convention or dont use the 3rd party stylesheet at all.



5.2.2 Getting Started
---------------------------------------
In this section, we're going to walk through the steps required to set up Webpack in your local machine.

This course is going to include a lot of work on your Git repository. We chose this style of practice because:
* We prefer learning by doing. By the end of the course, we want you to own a solid example to look back at for new projects.
* When working on your own repository, you have more freedom to try things and change things - which is an excellent way to learn! Just remember to stop and make a branch or at least commit before going off onto a rabbit trail.

Choose a Mode of Practice
In order to get the starter code up and running on your machine, before we start with Webpack, you have to pick either of the two options here:

1. Fork the Webpack Express Example App - Github repository, and then clone it onto your local machine to avoid accidentally trying to push your updates to the Udacity master repository.

2. You can use the in-classroom workspaces, starting from the next page, spread throughout this lesson. In this option, that you don’t need to deal with any environment setup.

About Github Repository - Webpack Express Example App
Each stage of the Webpack setup is reflected as a branch in the Github repository, and each branch has a README.md file documenting the steps taken in the branch. Note the following six branches that correspond to different stages, as shown in the snapshot below:

This repository makes use of git branches for each stage of this lesson. You will want to use the stage before the exercise you are on, as a starting point. The first exercise is branch 0-initial-setup, but you’ll also want to use that as the basis for the second exercise. You’ll use the next branch 1-install-webpack as the basis for moving onto the third exercise.

If you need to check which branches are available, use git branch -a. Then, once you know which branch you want, use git checkout <branch-name>, e.g., git checkout 0-initial-setup.

Give a moment to have a glance at the different files available in the repository:

Once, we will start configuring the initial setup, you will notice the change in package.json, node_modules, and package-lock.json.

Steps for Initial Setup of the Starter Code - Locally in Your Machine
Follow the steps as explained below:

1. Fork this repo, then clone the branch of your choice from your forked repo down to your computer locally. When you fork the repo, you can add your own personal notes to the README.md markdown file.

2. Open your terminal, go to a specific directory for this Nanodegree, and clone the Git repo using the command: git clone https://github.com/<Your Github Username>/fend-webpack-content.git

3. Get inside the newly downloaded directory, using cd fend-webpack-content

4. As we are just starting this process the first time, we will switch to the branch 0-initial-setup, using:

git checkout 0-initial-setup
git branch

Install NPM in your project, giving the ability to use Node. NPM is by-default installed with Node.js. To see if you already have Node.js and NPM installed and check the installed version, run the following commands:
node -v
npm -v

You can upgrade to the latest version of npm using:

npm install -g npm@latest
npm install

6. If the npm install throws NPM error, try clearing the cache and a fresh re-install, using:
npm cache clean
[sudo] npm install -g npm
npm install

If it asks to fix the vulnerabilities, run npm audit fix

7. Start your project, using npm run start

8. Check the website running at http://localhost:8080/. By default, this app runs on port 8080, but you can, of course, edit that in server.js. If everything, goes well, you'll see the app running as shown in the snapshot below:

Quiz Question
￼
When you use npm to install a new package, how many files/folders in your code change?
3

Quiz Question
￼
What do the commands npm i or yarn do? Choose the best answer.
They install all modules listed in the package.json and add to or create a new node_modules folder

Interview Question
What information can go into a package.json file? Name everything you can think of.
dependencies



5.2.3 Ex 0: Getting Started - Workspace
---------------------------------------
Set up the Local Machine
In the previous page, we explained the steps required for the initial setup of the starter code in your local machine.

If you are using the classroom workspace, you do not need to use the tasklist below - it’s here to help those working on their local machines. The same instructions are included in the workspace, so you should click “Expand” on the bottom left to be able to use your full screen.

￼
Exercise: Getting Started Tasklist
Fork this repo.
x Clone it onto your own machine
x Install npm packages
x [optional] Change server to run on different port
x Start server (find the start command in package.json)

Udacity Workspace
Below, we’ve included a Udacity workspace. Here, you'll be able to work on exercises without leaving the classroom environment.

Exercise: Getting Started

Exercise: Getting Started¶
cd into your folder (webpack-content) and run:

npm install
npm start to start the app
this app runs on localhost:3000 on your local machine, although you can use the OPEN APP button here to view it.
Note that you could normally edit the port in server.js, although you won't be able to view it outside of port 3000 in this workspace.




5.2.4 Install Webpack
---------------------------------------
Install Webpack
In this exercise we will install Webpack locally.

Current Version of Webpack
At the time this course is created, the most recent stable version of Webpack is version 4. Webpack 4 comes with some significant changes from previous versions, so you will find different information out there if you read an older tutorial.

One of the new things about version 4, is that webpack declared a few default settings that are automatically in place when you install webpack. So, you might not even need a webpack config file. But, our app won't be following all the default settings, so we will need a custom config file, webpack.config.js.

Install Webpack in Local Machine
Prerequisite - We suggest you have any code editor, such as Visual Studio Code in your local machine. It will help to edit the files, keep track of the changes, and easy navigation. In this exercise, we will install Webpack locally. The steps are as follows:

In the terminal (Mac/Linux) or command prompt (Windows), go to the project directory. If you wish to practice the steps mentioned in the video demonstration below, stay on the 0-initial-setup branch. Else, switch to the branch 1-install-webpack corresponding the current exercise where all the steps have already been carried out. Note: If you are switching branches don't forget to make a commit on the current branch before switching.

git checkout 1-install-webpack
git branch

1. Install Webpack and the command line instructions (CLI) tool using npm, as:

npm install

Remember that npm i is just shorthand for npm install. A CLI is a terminal program that allows developers to run commands from the command line to communicate with the Webpack.

1. In package.json, verify if webpack and webpack-cli are added to the "dependencies" as:

"dependencies": {
"express": "^4.17.1",
"webpack": "^4.43.0",
"webpack-cli": "^3.3.11"
},

1. In package.json, add a build npm script as:

"scripts": {
"build": "webpack"
},

Lastly, verify the dependency for the development in "devDependencies" block as:

"devDependencies":{
"webpack-dev-server": "^3.11.0",
},

1. Create a webpack.config.js file in the root location of your project, and add the necessary require statements, and a blank module.exports code as:

const path = require("path")
const webpack = require("webpack")
module.exports = {
}

We will populate the module.exports with the entry code in the next exercise.

1. Try running Webpack using the command npm run build. You can expect to get an error in the terminal because our config file is currently still empty. We will start building the config file in the following lessons.
2. Let's commit the work done until now, using git commit.

Erratum - The webpack.config.js file has to be created in the root (/) location of your project.

Note: Let's see why we have mentioned in the video above that "the default entry point is not going to work for us because we have express installed."

The default location for the webpack entry point is ./src/index.js - but because we are already set up with express and have a slightly different file structure, that file doesn't exist! Instead, we need to tell webpack to use a custom entry point. You will learn more about this in the next pages!

￼
Quiz Question
￼
A webpack config file:
Allows us to override the webpack default setup as necessary

Interview Question
At work, a project requires the use of a technology that is completely new to you. What steps would you take to learn the required technology?
install it, go through quick example and play around with it.



5.2.5 Ex 1: Install Webpack - Workspace
---------------------------------------
Exercise: Install Webpack
If you are using the classroom workspace, you do not need to use the tasklist below - it’s here to help those working on their local machines. The same instructions are included in the workspace, so you should click “Expand” on the bottom left to be able to use your full screen.

￼
Exercise: Install Webpack Tasklist
In your own repo:
x Install webpack and webpack cli
x Add the config file: webpack.config.js
x Add necessary require statements and module.exports to config file

   const path = require(‘path’) 
   const webpack = require('webpack')

   module.exports = {

   }
x Add a new webpack npm script to your package.json
   "build": "webpack"
x Try running webpack (You should get a Webpack error in terminal, but you’ll see it trying to run)
   npm run build
x Git commit





5.2.6 Webpack Entry
---------------------------------------
Webpack Entry
Let's create the Webpack entry point. Webpack broke at the last step because it didn’t have an entry point.

Switch the Git Branch
If you want to practice the steps mentioned in the video demonstration below, then stay on the 1-install-webpack branch.

Else, switch to the branch 2-add-webpack-entry corresponding to the current exercise where all the steps have already been carried out, using

git checkout 2-add-webpack-entry
git branch

Note: If you are switching branches don't forget to make a commit on the current branch before switching.

You can view the files specific to the current branch, in the Github repository online, as well. For your convenience, the todo steps for the current stage/exercise are mentioned in STEP-2.md file available in the root directory of the project.

Webpack Entry
Webpack is going to make a map of our app assets and all of their dependencies, but it needs somewhere to start. The default location for the webpack entry point is ./src/index.js - but because we are already set up with express and have a slightly different file structure, that file doesn't exist! Instead, we need to tell webpack to use a custom entry point. In webpack.config.js, mention the entry point as:

module.exports = {
    entry: './src/client/index.js'
}

Quick Check -

1. For your easy reference, the index.js file at path ./src/client/ is already available in the 2-add-webpack-entry branch that you are working on. If you are unable to find index.js in ./src/client/, feel free to create the file here.
2. For building the app, you can use either npm run build.
3. After running the build command successfully, verify that a dist directory is created in the root, containing the bundled file main.js.

To check what files are included in the webpack build, you can run webpack-cli command from the terminal: npx webpack --display-modules or npx webpack --json > info.json (if you want to generate a json file in the project folder).

Interview Question
Without using build tools, what are the strategies available to you for loading assets in a particular order?

include in html file



5.2.7 Ex 2: Webpack Entry - Workspace
---------------------------------------
Exercise: Webpack Entry
If you are using the classroom workspace, you do not need to use the tasklist below - it’s here to help those working on their local machines. The same instructions are included in the workspace, so you should click “Expand” on the bottom left to be able to use your full screen.

Exercise: Webpack Entry Tasklist
In your project:
x Add an index.js file to the client directory (you may need to remove the existing one from the repo)
x Add the entry point attribute to webpack config './src/client/index.js'
x Add an alert to the index.js so we can see it run
x Build webpack
x Check for a dist folder - look in the main.js file for the alert you added
x Commit your changes!

Exercise: Webpack Entry¶
Now, we'll start to see the files webpack will create for us. Again, start by cd into webpack-content.

* Add an index.js file to the client directory
* Add the entry point attribute to the webpack config './src/client/index.js'

HIDE SOLUTION

In webpack.config.js, within module.exports, add:
￼
entry: './src/client/index.js'

* Add an alert to the index.js so we can see it run

HIDE SOLUTION
Here's one option here:

￼alert('I exist!')

Build webpack
￼HIDE SOLUTION
npm run build

If you want to also see the app in action, use npm start as well.

* Check for a dist folder - look in the main.js file for the alert you added

Need to try viewing the app? Use these to view or stop the app.




