date start : 30 august 2021


4.1 Lesson Overview
---------------------------------------
Implementing Message Passing

So far in our course, we have learned:

How and when it makes sense to take apart a monolith application into microservices
Different forms of message passing with REST, gRPC, and message queues.

In this lesson, we will be working on applying and implementing message passing techniques. We will learn about how to set up servers and clients for:

REST
gRPC
Kafka

Programming Language: Python
We will use common libraries and tools to implement these technologies.

Once you have a core understanding of how to implement a message passing technique with Python libraries, you should be able to use these technologies in other contexts.

By the end of this lesson you will be able to:

Use REST to implement a RESTful API and consumer
Use gRPC to implement a gRPC server and client
Use Kafka to implement a distributed message queue



4.2 Why Does Implementing Message Passing Matter?
---------------------------------------
Why Does Implementing Message Passing Matter?

By implementing well thought-out designs, we can save money in infrastructure costs or we can enable our services to run with minimal downtime to prevent loss of business.

Business Importance
Message passing today is integral to an industry where businesses can leverage integrations from Software as a Service providers.

Some businesses have thrived partly due to their well-crafted APIs. Their well-crafted APIs and supporting documentation can be a defining factor for adoption.

Freemium Models
Today, it is common for businesses to offer a freemium model: hobbyists can sign up and use a free service within some usage limits.

Once the users have a good experience using the tools and integrations, it is common for them to gravitate towards using them in their professional roles.
An API that is unreliable and has a poor user experience would be a great hindrance to the adoption of the business' tools and services.

Technological Importance
It's important to make decisions on technologies that will satisfy today's business requirements as well as provide a roadmap for future iterations.
We need to understand the inspirations for certain message passing techniques and how they can be improved if business requirements change.
It's not a good idea to blindly apply trendy technologies without understanding the impact that it will have.
Throughout your career, new trends will come and go with different technologies that one can use in their systems.
You should be able to weigh the tradeoffs of these tools and build maintainable systems that will have a great business impact.

q1
Create and maintain documentation for developers to understand how to use and implement the API
Ensure that new changes to the API won't break existing code implemented by users
Set up a reliable infrastructure to reduce the downtime that services experience




