1. about the program
---------------------------------------
Welcome to the Bertelsmann Next Generation Tech Booster Challenge Program!
Udacity is excited to welcome you to your Scholarship program!

You earned your seat in this amazing opportunity, and we’re so excited to accompany you on your learning journey!

Get ready to be a part of a tight-knit community of lifelong learners from all walks of life. We can’t wait to see where you take this scholarship opportunity!

Please read on for some helpful details as you start the program.

Program Components

Technical Content: This contains the technical content of the track you chose. All of this content is available in the Udacity classroom for you to access during the program.

Final Assessment: ُCompleting this assessment is required, if you want to be considered for the second phase of this program in your track, where selected students are granted a full Nanodegree Program scholarship to learn more advanced skills.

The link to take the assessment will be sent by email on the assessment day to all students, which is Feb 22 at 00:00 am CET. The final assessment will close on February 23 at 11:59pm CET, so you have a full 48 hours to complete it!

Nanodegree Program Selection Criteria
Selection into the second phase of the program, the Nanodegree program phase, is highly competitive. You will be eligible for the Nanodegree program once you fulfill the criteria below:

* 100% completion of the Challenge Course by Feb 14, 2024. This includes: lessons, videos, and quizzes.
* Passing the Final Assessment.

Students who score highest on the Final Assessment are also prioritized for selection into the Nanodegree phase. So, please make sure to complete your classroom content and prepare well for the assessment.

Final Assessment details and instructions are found in the “Final Assessment” section in your classroom.


Online Community: Throughout your entire journey in this phase, you will have access to the program’s online community on Slack. Your Slack community is where you will get technical support and practice your new knowledge with your peers. Learners who are involved in the community are better prepared to take the Final Assessment.


This is going to be a fun ride!



2. program duration
---------------------------------------
You have until February 15, 2024 to complete all Phase 1 content. Of course, you can also complete the content before that date if you work harder! But on February 15, 2023 11:59pm CET, you will be unenrolled from phase 1.

The Path to Success
At Udacity, students who participate in our Scholarship Challenge Phases are most successful if they implement the following best practices:

* Dedicate 3-5 hours per week to the Challenge Course
* Join the Slack Community and participate in Community Initiatives
* Go through all Challenge Phase content carefully and thoroughly

Please note - there may be references to Nanodegree projects and some additional project materials provided. You will not submit a project as part of this Challenge Phase. However, if you are selected as a winner for the full scholarship, you will be required to formally submit and pass all technical projects per the suggested deadlines after you are enrolled in the Nanodegree program.



3. join your community
---------------------------------------
We’ve created a custom Slack workspace for your Scholarship classmates and you!

Be sure to join Slack using the same email address that you use to log in to your Udacity classroom.

We strongly recommend joining your fellow classmates in Slack. In this exclusive student community you’ll be able to:

1. Collaborate with your peers, give and receive support about the course content
2. Participate in community challenges organized by our Community team
3. Build your professional network by being part of a vibrant community of aspiring learners
4. Know all the updates and news about the Next Generation Tech Booster Scholarship Program

The Slack community will become your number one place to receive technical help and practice your new skills.

If you’re new to Slack, don’t worry! The Community team has resources, including a Slack video tutorial, to help you get up to speed quickly, please check this guide if you need any help with using Slack.

Orientation
Our Community team will be hosting a live Kick-off Session where they’ll share the eligibility criteria for the full Nanodegree Program scholarship.

When: Friday, December 15th, 2023 @ 6 AM PT | 3 PM CET | 7:30 PM IST

Click on the button below to register for the Challenge Phase Kick-off


The orientation will be recorded and posted on the Scholarship Google site for anyone who is unable to attend the live session.

The Scholarship Google Site is your go-to spot to stay up-to-date on everything related to this Scholarship program. If you have a question, the answer is most likely here!

https://sites.google.com/udacity.com/next-gen-tech-booster-schol/home



4. inactive learners
---------------------------------------
Inactive Learners
In this year’s program, learners who don’t show active participation in the Challenge will be unenrolled by January 5, 2023.

How can I fulfill the active participation requirement by January 5, 2023?
To fulfill this requirement, please complete both of these steps:

1. Enter the classroom for your Challenge course.
2. Start your Challenge course by clicking into a minimum of 1 lesson and completing 1 concept inside it. You will see a green checkmark next to the concept in the left sidebar once you have completed it.



5. classroom tour
---------------------------------------
Note:
You can download your course content by heading to the Resources section in the left navigation menu. Click on each link to download the Video, Transcripts, or any other files of the current lesson.



6. content copyrights
---------------------------------------
Please note that copying and displaying any of the Udacity.com’s content without our authorization is considered a copyright violation and a serious offense. Similarly, using Udacity’s trademark and goodwill without our authorization constitutes trademark violation, which is also an offense.

Committing this offense or taking part in any other form of it will result in potential termination of the account and disqualification from the program.

