Introduction

This chapter is designed to help you evaluate whether blockchain tech, including the Hyperledger frameworks, are right for your business, and where best to implement this new technology. We will cover the ways different industries are using blockchain technologies today, and show you some common features of blockchains that can provide efficiencies in business.

The finance industry, in particular, put a lot of resources behind blockchain tech early on. They have created blockchains and distributed ledgers for transferring assets and recording trade agreements. Many types of transactions, such as private company stock sales, bonds, options, and cash transactions have all been recorded on permissioned blockchains.

Blockchain technologies are very good at recording state transitions. Just as the finance industry uses blockchain to record who owns an asset at any given moment in time, the legal industry has also implemented blockchain technologies to record property rights and the transfer of those rights. It will be interesting to see how the courts adapt to recording contractual agreements on both public and permissioned blockchains going forward.

Insurance companies act as a trusted intermediary, pooling funds from unaffiliated individuals. By holding these funds, they spread the risk of catastrophe amongst all clients. Clients of these insurance companies trust that, when something happens, the insurance company will pay them. Blockchain tech may be able to disrupt the insurance industry, as they may leverage the Hyperledger frameworks as a nexus of trust that controls claim payouts.

The healthcare industry has also found distributed ledger technology to be useful to record and share data, such as patient health records, or pharmacy information.

Several industries that deal with materials and product supply chains have began using blockchain and the Hyperledger frameworks for improved resource, sourcing, and allocation.

Let's take a look at different use cases for Hyperledger blockchain technologies and see what advantages they can bring to your business.



Learning Objectives

By the end of this chapter, you should be able to:

Examine several use cases where blockchain technology is actively used to solve real world business problems.
Discover the factors to look at when evaluating if blockchain technology is right for a particular project.
Decide when to use and when not to use blockchain technology.



Business Blockchain Technologies Overview

Blockchain is a data structure with an automated way to enforce trust among participants. Consensus algorithms ensure that all participants agree on the data stored within the blockchain. Blockchain opens the door to disrupt any industry that relies on a central authority to confirm authenticity. It also allows independent, and even competing organizations, to share information to gain efficiencies across an industry.

In permissioned blockchains, a consortium of organizations are responsible for authenticating and controlling the participants in a blockchain. In public blockchains, no central authority or administration is required to exchange data. Blockchains can drive business innovation through controlled data-sharing networks for industry consortiums.

The promise of distributed ledger technologies (DLT) to simplify and automate key work functions has many industries taking notice. Businesses recognize the efficiency gains from transitioning from closed and proprietary solutions to standard open source capabilities, such as Hyperledger business blockchain technologies. Several common project features of blockchain applications are taking shape as the technology matures.

How exactly are businesses using these emerging technologies today? Next, we will explore the state of distributed ledger technologies in actual corporate settings, and how they compare against traditional tools. 



Video: Hyperledger Advantages for Businesses (Brian Behlendorf)



Business Interest in Hyperledger

When we first launched this course, in 2017, enterprise blockchain technologies were still in the initial stages of their production implementation. The concept of blockchain was at the time mostly associated with bitcoin and cryptocurrency. But the situation has significantly changed in the meantime, and while still considered revolutionary and in early stages, enterprise-grade blockchain technologies are now used in production, changing not only the way we do business, but also the way we envision doing business in the future, as more and more use cases and opportunities are created.

* Smart contracts eliminate the middleman and add accountability (used in various industry sectors, such as real estate, healthcare, government, music, etc.)
* Internet of Things (IoT)-based blockchain applications add a higher level of security,  and transparency (in industries like supply chain, healthcare, banking and financial services, automotive, cybersecurity, etc.). Hyperledger Fabric is at the forefront of this revolution. 
* Identity security is a key area where enterprise blockchain technologies can make a difference, bringing, for example, a much-needed reduction in identity fraud and theft claims, cutting the red tape of government and local administration bureaucracy, and more. Hyperledger Indy, Hyperledger Fabric, etc. are just a couple of technology examples successfully used in production in this area.
* Blockchain adds data transparency and automation to supply management and logistics, building trust and enabling leaner, more cost-effective processes.

From smart companies, to smart cities, to smart energy management, to streamlining supply chains and financial services, from logistics to digital identities, across both public and private sectors, the opportunities provided by enterprise blockchain technologies are astounding. Talking about blockchain is now in the past; it's now time to walk the talk! And the sky is the limit it seems!



Video: Blockchain Use Case (Brian Behlendorf)



Hyperledger Blockchains in Production

Over the past few years, there has been a lot of talk about blockchain and its potential in the enterprise landscape. Today, blockchain is no longer a hype: it has become a reality, and is transforming processes and how enterprises do business, across a wide range of industries.

Below is just a small sample of blockchain-based enterprise solution successfully being used in production:

Supply Chain
IBM Food Trust, powered by Hyperledger Fabric, connects farmers, processors, distributors and retailers to create visibility and accountability in the food supply chain, by making the complete history and location of individual food items (along with accompanying information like certifications, test data, temperature data, etc.) available in seconds once uploaded onto the blockchain.

Cambio Coffee, in partnership with ScanTrust, developed a Hyperledger Sawtooth blockchain network to provide transparency and traceability of the coffee journey, from farmers to roasting, to packaging, and shipping. This approach increased customers' trust in the products and validate their provenance.
Airline Industry
NIIT Technologies developed a new blockchain application, Chain-m, using Hyperledger Fabric. This new application aims to enhance passenger ticketing processes by adding increased transparency to the process, and improving record-keeping, security and agility, and ultimately, reducing operational costs.
Enterprise Operations Management
JD.com, the largest retailer in China, has developed its own enterprise blockchain platform aimed at streamlining numerous operational procedures, such as tracking and tracing the movement of goods, charity donations, authenticity certification, property assessment, transaction settlements, digital copyrights, etc. JD Blockchain Open Platform uses Hyperledger Fabric.
Insurance Compliance Data
The American Association of Insurance Services has developed openIDL (open Insurance Data Link), a system built on IBM Blockchain, thus powered by Hyperledger Fabric, which is designed to automate insurance regulatory reporting.
Decentralized Identities and Trusted Credentials
In an attempt to streamline their business-oriented services, the government of British Columbia started working on a project based on Hyperledger Indy. OrgBook BC is an online directory that can be used to quickly verify if an organization is legally registered to do business in British Columbia as a corporation. This is just the first step of a larger blockchain-based initiative aimed at streamlining government services.
Next, we will dive deeper into some of the industries that are using blockchain-based solutions, as well as specific use cases. 



Supply Chain Management (Part I)

Supply chain management is an important piece of enterprise resource planning (ERP). Supply chain management is the oversight of funds, raw materials, components, and finished products, as they move from suppliers, to manufacturers, to wholesalers, to retailers, to consumers. This movement can occur both within one company, or among several companies. As assumptions change over time, the supply chain models can begin to show weak performance metrics. Good supply chain management will keep product quality consistent, and also prevent either understocking or overstocking of inventory.

Stocking the right amount of inventory over time is also known as supply demand synchronization, and is the key component in just-in-time lean manufacturing and distribution. Companies want to ensure that products are available when needed, but overstocking inventory is costly. Companies that overstock perishable goods must discard items. Companies that overstock non-perishable goods cannot use the money paid for those goods for other purposes until the inventory is used. Furthermore, if the price of a good drops while a company is storing excess inventory, then the company will lose money.

Currently, there are weak points in the supply chain management. These weak points occur where there are multiple ERP systems in use across organizations. Data doesn't flow well through the handshakes or interface points between systems. These weak points usually happen during transference of ownership, or change in status between two parties. Visibility is limited at the hand-off points of funds, raw materials, components, or finished products. This lack of transparency is often intentional, as companies don't want to expose their competitive advantages (e.g., an inexpensive supplier who delivers quality products on time). Additionally, a company could be cut out of a supply chain if members start transacting directly with that company’s suppliers.



Supply Chain Management (Part II)

Blockchains are being used to solve problems in supply chain management by eliminating the need for a trusted third party to certify raw materials, components, or finished products, as they travel through a supply chain. Every participant, or node, contains a copy of all transactions. This provides an audit trail of every transaction that has occurred in the system. A change would be validated or rejected by the nodes in the system. Because all participants have a copy of all past transactions in the network, any participant can detect if a product is not as advertised. Instead of examining raw materials, components, or finished products at several points in the supply chain, a record of the inspection would be available and bound to the item as it flows through the supply chain. Although a record of the transaction is public and tied to the movement of physical items across the network, specifics such as the quantity of goods, or the identity of the parties transacting, can be done pseudo-anonymously in a blockchain. Such a granular view of movement through supply chains improves resource allocation.

The trade finance industry can also leverage information visible in a supply chain blockchain. In its broadest sense, trade finance manages capital required for international trade. Trade financing has become the norm for cross border transactions, with the World Trade Organization estimating that "up to 80 percent of global trade is supported by some sort of financing or credit insurance" (2016). An exporter needs to mitigate the risk of non-payment, while an importer wants to mitigate the supply risk. The function of trade finance is to act as a third party to remove the payment risk and the supply risk, whilst providing the exporter with accelerated receivables, and the importer with extended credit. Institutions that provide capital during these trades can leverage the information visible in a supply chain blockchain to better evaluate companies for lending.



Supply Chain Case Study: Walmart

As one of the world's leading businesses in the supply chain industry, Walmart is constantly looking for ways to enhance transparency and traceability in the food system, and over the years has tried numerous solutions and approaches to solve this problem. Then, the hype of blockchain caught their attention. They looked into various blockchain technologies that could potentially be used to create a traceability system for their supply ecosystem, such as Ethereum, Burrow, Hyperledger Fabric, etc. 

In partnership with IBM, they decided that Hyperledger Fabric was the best fit for their needs (enterprisegrade, permissioned, open source, vendor neutral, modular, plug-and-play). In October 2016, Walmart and IBM announced the two projects they were focusing on: one on tracing the origin of mangoes sold in US Walmart stores, and the other project was focusing on tracing pork sold in its China stores.

"The Hyperledger Fabric blockchain-based food traceability system built for the two products worked. For pork in China, it allowed uploading certificates of authenticity to the blockchain, bringing more trust to a system where that used to be a serious issue. And for mangoes in the US, the time needed to trace their provenance went from 7 days to… 2.2 seconds!" As a result, Walmart and IBM worked on expanding the system, both within and outside of Walmart; IBM Food Trust, an ecosystem of producers, suppliers, manufacturers, retailers, etc., working together to create a smarter, safer and more sustainable global food system, was born.

Today, Walmart traces over 25 products from five different suppliers using the IBM Blockchain built on top of Hyperledger Fabric: from mangoes, strawberries and leafy greens, to meat and poultry, to dairy and almond milk, and even multi-ingredient products like packaged salads and baby foods. And it plans to expand the use of this system to include more products and categories in the near future. 

You can learn more about Walmart's successful use of blockchain technologies from this article: How Walmart brought unprecedented transparency to the food supply chain with Hyperledger Fabric.



Supply Chain Case Study: ScanTrust

Another great example of how blockchain technologies can be a great solution for transparency and traceability in the supply chain industry is that of Cambio coffee: if you buy a pack of Cambio coffee and scan the label with your smartphone, you will be able to see all the details of the coffee's journey, from harvest in Peru, to shipment, to roasting in Shanghai, and delivery to your home. Cambio Coffee is a direct trade organic coffee company that prides itself on building a direct link from coffee farmers to consumers, and the immutable records that are stored on the blockchain are proof that they stay true to their mission.

Cambio Coffee worked with ScanTrust to implement a traceability system built on top on Hyperledger Sawtooth. When ScanTrust decided to implement a blockchain solution to enhance trust, transparency and traceability in the supply chain, they wanted a reliable, proven, open source technology, supported by an active community, and they decided that Hyperledger Sawtooth was the best fit for what they needed, as it is also focused on IoT implementations. 

“ScanTrust plans to use the Hyperledger Sawtooth-based solution for other projects. Besides enhancing traceability in the supply chain, the team sees other uses for the technology… A brand could create its own token to incentivize consumers to share data; or it could develop ways to allow consumers to tip the farmer who produced their coffee.”

You can learn more about the this use case from the following article: How ScanTrust brought Transparency to the Supply Chain with Hyperledger Sawtooth.



Property Rights (Part I)

The legal industry has begun to examine how blockchain technologies can minimize disputes around property rights. Property rights are a division of law whereby the rights and responsibilities associated with owning an asset are established. Property ownership rights may include the right to use the asset, the right to profit from the asset, the right to exclude others from using the asset, or the right to transfer the asset to others. Property ownership responsibilities may include tax liability for the asset, maintenance and repair costs, or payment for injuries caused by unsafe or defective conditions of the asset.

Ownership for a particular asset may be transferred in whole, or in part. As a result, property rights or obligations attached to a particular asset may belong to several different entities at the same time. For example, if you purchase a plot of land, you have the right to use that land. However, the usage of the land is most likely limited by the government. The right to use the land may be taken away from you by foreclosure if you do not pay property taxes. Similarly, your right to use the land is limited to permitted uses per that areas’ zoning laws. It is unlikely that you will be allowed to operate a pesticide manufacturing plant in the middle of a residential neighborhood. If you lease out the plot of land, your right to use the property is transferred to the tenant, but you are still able to sell the plot of land to another landlord while the lease is active.



Property Rights (Part II)

Companies may use blockchain technologies to record ownership rights and responsibilities. Specifically, governments have put land registry records on blockchain (Laura Shin, forbes.com, 2016). Companies have also put intellectual property registration and ownership on blockchain (poex.io). Intellectual property includes copyright, trademark, and patents. To legally protect ownership rights in these, one registers their production, or invention, or otherwise proves when the work was established, and that they are the origin of the work.

Companies with strong brand value in particular, such as the fashion industry and luxury good providers, are interested in more efficient ways to protect their intellectual property. When data is added to a blockchain, it can provide an immutable, secure, timestamped record for the creation of intellectual property, and any changes to the data can be easily detected. Blockchains establish this in a variety of ways.

A blockchain may record a hash of a document. As an example, photographers could place a hash of their unique digital photographs on the blockchain. The hash of a digital photograph will be constant so long as the photograph file has not been altered. Therefore, the blockchain can control and track the distribution of the photograph, detect the introduction of counterfeit images, and be used to resolve disputes as to who first introduced the image. By placing a hash of intellectual property documents on the blockchain, a party can publicly demonstrate data ownership, and prove the existence of certain documents at a given moment in time, without revealing the actual data. In addition to the hash, you may also choose to store the location of the file in the blockchain, which could be used for retrieval.



Provenance (Part I)

As the previous section on blockchains for supply chain management illustrated, blockchain data improves insight into products, as they move through their lifecycle. Large enterprises are not the only parties to benefit from this increased visibility. Consumers can also benefit from blockchain technology.

Provenance is a record of ownership used as a guide to authenticity or quality. Because of the overhead involved in traditional provenance records, they were only available for very large ticket items, such as works of art. With the efficiencies gained from blockchain technology, provenance records can be available for a wider range of goods. This improved information can aid consumers as they make purchasing decisions.



Provenance (Part II)

In order to be certain that your product is authentic, you would need either a record of all the transactions for the life of the item, or a trusted third party. Trusted third parties certify the authenticity or quality of an item. They function as a new data layer between data silos, and increase costs of transactions by charging for providing data and certifying products. Some examples of such trusted third parties are the National Organic Program (USDA Organic) for produce, Fair Trade USA for human worker conditions, or the Gemological Laboratory of America (GLA) for jewelry, diamonds, and gemstones. Blockchains can serve the function of these trusted third parties by uniquely identifying products, and certifying their authenticity. Alternatively, these trusted third parties can leverage blockchains by recording their audits and inspections on blockchains. This would reduce the overhead needed to certify products. For example, a manufacturer could prove that its sources also abide by the certification authorities’ standards if those sources are listed on blockchains as having passed all requirements. The timing of the source’s original certification and renewals could be viewed by any interested party.

As a consumer reading from a blockchain, you would be able to verify a product’s authenticity by seeing the full chain of custody for an item. Hyperledger frameworks allow consumers to view important data attached to the goods, without necessarily viewing exactly who conducted each transfer down the supply chain line. Therefore, the promise is that you will be assured that the product you are purchasing is an authentic product, without necessarily allowing the public to view your purchasing habits, all leveraging distributed ledger technology.



Provenance Use Case: Circulor

For years, consumers have been looking for ethically-sourced products, and a well-known example is that of diamonds provenance. A much less known conflict mineral is tantalum - a rare mineral used to make capacitors found in devices like smartphones and laptops. Rwanda is the world's largest supplier of tantalum; however, at times, tantalum is also smuggled in from Congo, where children or enslaved workers are used to mine it. As a result, there are many regulations passed by OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development), US, and EU (US Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, EU Conflict Minerals law, etc.) aimed at improving traceability. Despite this regulations, there has not been a reliable way to prove the source of tantalum. 

Blockchain technologies have been a game changer. Circulor, a UK-based company, has developed a system that traces the origin of tantalum, ensuring it is mined, transported, and processed according to approved regulations. This system is built on Hyperledger Fabric and delivers the first mine-to-manufacturer traceability of tantalum. How were they able to succeed? By creating a very tightly controlled system, that recorded the tantalum journey every step of the way: from mining in Rwanda, to refining in Macedonia, to manufacturing in USA, shipping from USA, final assembly in China, and the distribution to consumers.

The system went smoothly into production in the fall of 2018, and included, to start with, three mines in Rwanda and a refinery in Macedonia. And the plan is to bring more mines into the system. On top of that, Circulor aims to expand the system they built to cover other minerals and countries.

You can read more about tantalum traceability success story on the Hyperledger website: Circulor achieves first-ever mine-to-manufacturer traceability of a conflict mineral with Hyperledger Fabric.



Finance (Part I)

"Blockchain has huge potential to move the financial services industry away from messaged based models, slow reconciliation processes and inefficiency of fragmented data stores. With blockchain, financial services can move to a shared data construct, driving down costs, increasing efficiency and opening up entirely new business models".
- David Treat, Accenture

The Bitcoin blockchain was created as a "peer-to-peer electronic cash system" (Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin). Therefore, the first blockchain use case in existence was payments. However, Bitcoin proved to be quite slow to process payments, "somewhere in the region of 7 transactions per second", when compared to Visa, which "averages around 2,000 transactions per second, with peak capacity of perhaps 50,000 transactions per second" (Guy Brandon, due.com, February 2017). Developers are actively working to increase the throughput capacity of Bitcoin and other blockchain payment systems (lightning.network). Payments, especially international payments, can be quite costly. Blockchain technologies plan to decrease the costs associated with payments, by allowing parties to interact directly, instead of transferring through an intermediary, such as a bank. In addition, having a record of all past payments is useful to auditors and regulators. Financial institutions have heavily researched blockchain payment systems because a universally recorded world state of payment information can decrease the number of payment disputes among institutions. 



Finance (Part II)

The finance industry, in particular, has shown early interest in blockchain technology. R3, a fintech company that is a member of the Hyperledger consortium, has brought together more than 100 leading financial institutions to examine blockchain technology. The finance industry has already recorded business transaction agreements on blockchain. Currently, bonds, invoice financing, letter of credit transactions, and interest rate swaps governed by an ISDA master agreement have all been recorded on blockchain.

The financial industry would like to improve transaction settlement through blockchain technology by leveraging smart contract functionality for executing trades. Absent blockchain technology, a complex process known as the post-trade cycle is initiated once parties "execute" a trade. The post-trade cycle involves a series of steps to verify the terms of a trade, and to transfer assets involved in the trade in order to effectuate and settle the trade. Some trades are currently required by law to go through a separate central clearing organization. This organization steps in as the counterparty to each trade, creating two distinct contracts for each trade. These organizations are central securities depositories, whose role is to minimize the risk of trade default, and also to enforce rules against overexposure to certain types of trades.



Finance (Part III)

Although every trade has its own lifecycle, generally, the following steps will occur:

* Parties execute a trade. Executing a trade occurs when parties agree on the details of a trade and are willing to enter into the deal.
* One party will draft an inception document, capturing all the terms of the trade, and will send it to the other party to get the trade confirmed.
The recipient of the inception document will check the details of the trade and confirm the trade by signing and returning the document. Confirmation communication is done often by Fax, SWIFT, or Telex.
* The trade is allocated. For flexibility of profit and loss booking, parties will often allocate the trade to various sub-entities within their organization.
* Each trade will be stored by the party who was allocated the trade on an internal database. For ease of identification, the trade is assigned a unique Trade ID as a standard identifier.
* Post-Trade Changes are sometimes made by the parties. This can occur when:
- The trade can be amended with consent of both parties
- One party may assign its position in the trade to a different party
- A partial termination of the trade may be triggered if a change in the notional of the trade that is not pre-fixed according to the agreement occurs
- Termination of the deal before maturity of the trade may occur, which may entail a termination fee.
* Payment is made. These payments may be at the close of a trade, or at intermediate stages while a trade is still open. When the payments are made on an open contract, this is known as 'revaluation' and is done to minimize the risk of nonpayment by a counterparty whose position has weakened in the trade due to events that occurred after trade execution.
* Audit of the trade and associated payments is performed by the parties. If a dispute occurs, the parties must communicate and come to a resolution for such discrepancies. This is a manual and costly process.



Finance (Part IV)

Smart contracts may greatly improve the process of post-trade settlement, by reducing disputes and errors. Smart contracts will ensure that final settlement will happen when the execution of a trade occurs. With smart contract technology, a legal agreement can automatically execute clauses within it.

The image above shows the automation of back-office processes involved in trade confirmation and post-trade settlement via DLT. An asset ledger stores ownership and transactions. Smart contracts allow the asset ledger to handle collateral management and initiate payments per contract terms. Venues (e.g. exchanges, MTFs, bilateral voice conversations) still match trade requests with a counterparty, and provide price discovery. Querying information on the asset ledger may assist with price discovery. The asset ledger verifies the parties and asset ownership. It will then either accept, or reject the trade. If, for example, the seller does not own the asset in question, or the new trade would result in an illegal overexposure on the buyer side, the trade would be rejected. When a trade is valid and accepted onto the blockchain, the blockchain automates an immediate change in ownership, or a delayed, or contingent asset transfer. The changes in asset ownership or contract terms are securely recorded onto the asset ledger. The contract is programmed to execute automatically, exchanging payments and other assets per the terms agreed to by the parties.

It is still unclear whether courts will enforce blockchain contracts in the same way that they enforce traditional written contracts, with inked paper signatures. Therefore, the current best practice is to record trades on blockchain, alongside traditional legal documentation. The operative clauses in the traditional written contract are converted into smart contract templates to be placed on blockchain once a trade is confirmed. For example, a full ISDA master agreement document would be stored on blockchain, and tied to the smart contract governing the underlying swap or derivative trade. This leverages the predictable outcomes of a legal contract with the efficiencies that can be gained from distributed ledger technologies .



Finance (Part V)

There are both advantages and disadvantages to controlling funds on blockchain. If funds aren’t under the control of the smart contract, then there is no way a payment can be guaranteed. If funds are controlled by the parties’ smart contract agreement, then those payments can indeed be guaranteed at the close of the trade. However, this also means that those funds cannot be used by the parties’ for anything else throughout the lifecycle of the smart contract. Today, a party may use the funds separate from the contract. This exposes the other party to the risk of nonpayment, but frees up capital for other purposes. The connection between risk and return is not a problem that blockchains can solve.

Conducting post-trade settlement in an automated way through smart contracts promises to introduce efficiencies, and reduce friction associated with trades. However, the industry has experienced some barriers to the adoption of blockchain technologies. Primarily, data privacy rules have come into conflict with the way standard blockchain protocols operate. Some regulations in the finance industry will not allow you to share information, or store it on a shared medium, even if it is encrypted. In addition, regulations covering securities professionals specify how ownership of certain assets must be recorded and properly transferred. Securities professionals include broker-dealers and investment advisers. These rules were written without the anticipation of blockchain technologies, and are at odds with the fully digital transference of assets over blockchain technologies. Either these regulations will need to adapt to blockchain technologies, or blockchain technologies will need to introduce new features conforming to existing regulations. The adoption of blockchain technologies for post-trade settlement will likely change the role of governments in the financial oversight. There will be less of a need to enforce individual trades and resolve settlement disputes, but the government may collect better data on existing trades by viewing and querying the blockchain. With this increased insight into the market, the government may or may not develop stronger standards for trades through smart contracts.



Healthcare (Part I)

A number of multi-party processes in the healthcare industry can leverage distributed ledger technology. By streamlining these multi-party processes, the healthcare industry can reduce the time and expense of collecting and verifying multiple pieces of information in order to deliver quality care to patients. Healthcare providers and insurance companies have begun to explore how blockchain can improve the delivery of patient care.

In 2015, the US spent 27.42% of the federal budget, or $1.05 trillion, on healthcare (National Priorities Project). Because these costs are so high, the US government, in particular, has invested resources into healthcare blockchain technology. The Office of National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) is responsible for health information technology. It has recognized a need for nationwide interoperability and standards for electronic health records, claims processing, and verification of provider credentials. To that end, it has sponsored many government blockchain initiatives in healthcare.

The healthcare industry has already placed medical insurance enrollment information on blockchain for verification, and plans to incorporate many other aspects of medical insurance claims processing on blockchain. One cost borne by health insurance providers is auditing care providers. Health insurance providers must verify whether a practitioner actually delivered the care that he or she was obliged to deliver to the patient. Health insurance providers must also audit the financial aspects incurred as part of this care, to ensure that care was paid, and the charges were accurate. Tying the care auditability with the payment auditability provides a key advantage to reducing the potential for fraud.



Healthcare (Part II)

The healthcare industry has examined placing prescription drug fulfillment processes on blockchain since they involve gathering and checking information from many sources. Insurance benefits investigation eligibility checks are performed to see if insurance will pay. Prior authorization and step therapy requirements are checked to see if a patient is able to receive a particular drug, or if other drugs are preferred. Formulary checks, patients’ assistance checks, and pharmacy stock checks must all be performed. The healthcare industry has also used DLT to handle online identity management, by uploading verified pieces of a healthcare professional’s credentials for license verification.

By The BlockRx Project, retrieved from the Hyperledger Healthcare Working Group, August 22nd, 2017 Meeting

Another area blockchain is used in healthcare is to protect data from cybercrime. Data breaches happen on a daily basis across all industries, and healthcare is no different. In fact, 1 in 4 data breaches occur in the healthcare sector, affecting millions of people: more exactly, 1 in 13 patients in the U.S. are affected by breaches. Why is healthcare data so sought after by hackers? Because it's personal, permanent and detailed: from social security numbers, to address, to family history, to confidential medical history. 



Education

Blockchain solutions are being successfully implemented across various industries. As the technologies advance, more and more potential use cases arise. Education is one such area that could stand to benefit from distributed ledger technologies:

* Streamlining verification procedures for academic credentials, thus reducing fraudulent claims and bringing more transparency, ease of use, and speed to this process.
* Verifying e-portfolios of digital badges 
* Securing and sharing student records
* Identity management
* Sharing security data (from security cameras and sensors, for example) across device networks
* Creating learning marketplaces
* Records management
* Increasing accountability and transparency for charitable school donations
* Streamlining the public assistance system for families and students.
You can learn more about the potential advantages of using blockchain solutions for education from the following article: 20 Ways Blockchain Will Transform (Okay, May Improve) Education.



Education Case Study: Sony Global Education

We've all experienced the process of enrolling in higher education or applying for a skilled job - no two applications are the same, as each institution uses their own individual application and validation processes. Similarly, the credentials we must have when applying each require different validation process as well. Needless to say, this is a rather long and complicated process. Sony Global Education has identified in Japan the need to create a comprehensive, open and trusted system to record educational and training credentials of Japanese citizens. But this need is not limited to Japan alone - it spans worldwide. As such, Sony Global Education aims to create a system that will store this siloed data into one system, gathering people's academic and training credentials and then controlling access to this recorded data.

Sony Global Education decided to use Hyperledger Fabric, as it is a trusted, secure, open source, platform. The solution they designed was already tested successfully. Moreover, Sony Global Education is working with the Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications to develop a next-generation system for managing digital transcripts based on their tested solution, aiming to secure the authenticity of transcripts and allow them to be safely shared within a trusted network.

You can learn more about this use case reading Sony Global Education Chooses Hyperledger Fabric for a Next-Generation Credentials Platform.

https://www.hyperledger.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Hyperledger_CaseStudy_Sony.pdf



Smart Energy Management

We live in an increasingly connected and energy-dependent world. Balance between supply and demand is imperative to ensure electricity demand is met. However, the increasing demand in electricity adds increased pressure on conventional energy sources. For the most part, the existing electricity grid is coping with the existing demand; however, when unexpected events occur (weather-related, for example), the pressure exerted on this grid can reach dangerous, unsustainable levels. And with the advent of increased dependency on electricity in day-to-day life, time will come when conventional resources will no longer be sufficient. Drastic times require out-of-the-box solutions.

Enterprise-grade blockchain technologies are playing an increasingly important and innovative role in an increasing number of industry sectors, including the energy sector. In 2017, IBM partnered with TenneT, sonnen and Vandebron  to develop a distributed database for managing the electricity grid in the Netherlands and Germany:

TenneT is focusing on finding new sustainable ways to cope with the increasing dependency on and demand for electricity. In their quest to maintain the supply-demand balance, TenneT is exploring the use of a Hyperledger Fabric-based permissioned blockchain network that will integrate renewable electricity sources (such as electric cars and household batteries) in the energy grid. 
TenneT and Vandebron are running a pilot project in the Netherlands to test this potential solution. "Vandebron will work with customers who own an electric vehicle to make the capacity of their car batteries available to help TenneT balance the grid. Vandebron will provide this service to its customers without compromising the availability of their car battery. The blockchain enables each car to participate by recording their availability and their action in response to signals from TenneT." 
TenneT and sonnen are running another pilot project in Germany, focusing on re-dispatch efforts to prevent regional overloads on the energy grid by integrating renewable energy sources into the electricity supply network. In Germany, this would be needed, for example, when wind energy produced in northern Germany cannot be transported to industrial centers in the southern part of the country. To solve this issue, a network of residential solar batteries aims to reduce the pressure of the distribution limitations. The blockchain network will allow the TenneT operator to see available, ready-to-activate residential solar batteries, and then record the batteries' input to the electricity grid. 
If tests are successful, this Hyperledger Fabric-based implementation could then be implemented worldwide, adding much needed flexibility and security in the energy management system.



Smart Cities Use Case: Smart Dubai

Dubai is known for being a world-class business, cultural, and touristic destination. Dubai aims to become the world's first government fully powered by blockchain technologies by 2020. Smart Dubai is a city-wide effort to empower residents and visitors alike via digital transformation, an effort that relies on the partnership between the private sector and government entities. It aims "to make Dubai the happiest city on earth through technology innovation" by creating an efficient, blockchain-based city government, digitizing all of its services to add increased transparency, security, efficiency and reduce bureaucracy. Below we highlight just a few of the Smart Dubai initiatives:

The Dubai Blockchain Strategy aims to enable the execution of all applicable government transactions through blockchain by 2020.G
The Decentralized Data Marketplace leverages blockchain technology to ensure the security and immutability of transactions, tokenization to hide sensitive information, etc.
The UAEPASS is the national digital identity platform, giving UAE citizens, residents and visitors access to local and federal government services, as well as those of private companies, all on a single smart application, allowing them to authenticate and sign documents digitally.
The DubaiNow mobile application is a one-stop shop for smart services, unifying more than 55 key services from 22 government agencies. This application allows users to manage their bills, register their cars, renew licenses, track visa applications, obtain general information in real-time (from weather, to public transport, to health, etc.), and much more. This application also enables the Dubai government to implement various social responsibility-related activities: donations are collected and then distributed to a variety of beneficiaries, in collaboration with charities and government agencies. It also allows you to direct how money collected from fines you pay (e.g. traffic fines) are used, among other things.
Paperless government by 2020 is another goal of the Smart Dubai initiative, allowing officials and citizens to save time and resources, and protect the environment as well. “Adopting Blockchain technology Dubai stands to unlock 5.5 billion dirhams in savings annually in document processing alone - equal to the one Burj Khalifa’s worth of value every year.”
Smart Dubai is embracing a multi-blockchain business model to deliver services, such as IBM's Hyperledger Fabric-based  and ConsenSys' private blockchain implementation based on Ethereum. In October 2018, Smart Dubai and IBM launched the Dubai Blockchain Platform, the first government-endorsed blockchain-as-a-service platform in the UAE.

Through its ground-breaking, innovative initiatives and forward thinking, Dubai is transforming the life of its residents and visitors alike, creating a high benchmark for other cities looking to leverage innovation and state-of-the-art technologies. And while Dubai has achieved great successes in the past few years, their mission will not stop in 2021. They already have a vision toward Dubai 2050.

"Smart technology has firmly established itself as the engine driving the cities of the future, transforming human communities and activities - from the most mundane of tasks to the most complex. We are constantly on the lookout for new opportunities to meet representatives from other like-minded organisations who share our vision for a smart, connected future that allows people to enjoy seamless city experiences." (Khaleej Times)

- Dr. Aisha Bint Butti Bin Bishr, Director General of the Smart Dubai Office



Blockchain Best Practices for Enterprises

The use of distributed ledger technologies in production across various industries continues to expand and reach new horizons, as businesses explore new ways to incorporate blockchain in their day-to-day activities. However, in order to increase the success of blockchain business applications, some best practices must be considered:

* Security for the long term  
  While blockchain transactions are secure and cryptographically protected when it comes to the current technological advancements, we should always keep in mind that nothing is static, and technology continues to advance at an incredibly fast pace. What is secure today may not be so in the near future. Hackers and other bad actors are constantly focusing on breaking the cryptographic algorithms that protect blockchain data today. 
  To avoid the potential security disruptions of tomorrow, a critical best practice is that users should never put personally identifiable information, or PII, on their blockchains. 
* File storage on the blockchain
  Due to the way blockchains work to store data, replicating it on every other node or peer in the network, storage and compute costs can be incredibly high. To avoid added storage costs, it is recommended that other storage and replication methods to be used - this includes cloud networks like AWS S3, GCP Filestore, etc. This way, nodes and peers can have pointers or links to the data files kept outside of the blockchain network, instead of the actual data.
* Permissioned blockchain for private data
  On public blockchains, anybody has access to the information stored on the network: they can add transactions and read the data that is in it. When it comes to permissioned blockchains, data can be stored, accessed and used only between partners that have access to it. Permissioned blockchains, such as the Hyperledger technologies, are a great solution for businesses, as they want their data to remain private.
* Blockchain governance structure
  Most blockchain-related challenges are related to the governance model that is chosen. To keep things straightforward, you should define the governance structure upfront very early in the process, even before diving into blockchain: decide how new users/organizations are added to a blockchain network, how to determine if a user/organization should be removed from the blockchain network, include a mechanism that deals with and removes bad actors previously allowed in the network, etc. Keep in mind that things change over time, and as such, the governance procedures may change as well.
* Performance and scalability requirements
  Blockchain architects must have a clear understanding of the requirements for their specific use cases, and they must ensure that their blockchains meet those requirements. Based on these requirements, decisions must be made early on with each deployment and use case in regards to what technologies to use. 
* Goals of blockchain business cases
  Not every project or solution is successful, unless it is carefully planned, designed and implemented. A carefully thought out strategy must be designed and implemented for each project, to ensure that goals are achieved.
Blockchain can be a great solution for numerous business use cases that rely on security, controlled access, accountability, transparency, and efficiency, spanning a wide range of industries, from finance to banking, supply chains, manufacturing, healthcare, telecom, etc. Having well laid plans, goals and best practices can all help enterprise IT leaders explore the growing blockchain ecosystem as they work to capture its strengths for their businesses.



The Outlook of Blockchain for Business

The 2019 Technology Industry Innovation conducted by KPMG around the adoption of blockchain technologies suggests that 41 percent of businesses are likely to adopt and implement blockchain into their business operations in the next three years. Another important aspect revealed by this survey is that 48 percent of enterprises believe that blockchain will change the way they conduct and manage their business activities in the near future.

What areas are expecting significant disruptions due to increased adoption of blockchain technologies? The survey shows that IoT processes are expected to be impacted the most (27%), followed by processes involved in trading (22%),  reduced cybersecurity risk (20%), contracts (18%), etc. Industries that are believed to see the greatest blockchain adoption in the near future are financial services, industrial manufacturing and telecommunications.

What advantages would businesses have by adopting blockchain technologies? The KPMG survey outlines some of them:

* Improved business efficiencies
* Product/service differentiation
* Increased profitability
* Cost reductions
* New business insights from incremental data, etc.

Blockchain is viewed as one of the top 10 technologies that will transform businesses over the next three years, and beyond. The 2019 KPMG survey ranked blockchain at number 4, compared to 7 just a year ago. And, according to the Worldwide Semiannual Blockchain Spending Guide (March 2019) from International Data Corporation (IDC), worldwide spending on blockchain-related solutions is expected to reach $2.9 billion in 2019 (an increase of over 88% from the previous year), and $12.4 billion by 2022.

Want to be at the forefront of the blockchain technological innovation? Start assessing your needs to see if blockchain would be a good solution for your business.



Video: What Enterprises Look for When Evaluating Whether or Not to Use Hyperledger (Brian Behlendorf)



When to Use Blockchain

There are certain factors to consider when evaluating blockchain distributed ledger technology for your business. How many participants are in your system? What is the geographical distribution of the participants? What sort of performance requirements do you have? Defining the rules, risks, and responsibilities of each party in your blockchain system is useful as you consider transferring a database to a decentralized environment such as one of the Hyperledger frameworks. Blockchain is best suited for business applications where one or more of the following conditions apply:

* There is a need for a shared common database
* The parties involved with the process have conflicting incentives, or do not have trust among participants
* There are multiple parties involved or writers to a database
* There are currently trusted third parties involved in the process that facilitate interactions between multiple parties who must trust the third party. This could include escrow services, data feed providers, licensing authorities, or a notary public
* Cryptography is currently being used or should be used. Cryptography facilitates data confidentiality, data integrity, authentication, and non-repudiation
* Data for a business process is being entered into many different databases along the lifecycle of the process. It is important that this data is consistent across all entities, and/or digitization of such a process is desired
* There are uniform rules governing participants in the system
* Decision making of the parties is transparent, rather than confidential
* There is a need for an objective, immutable history or log of facts for parties’ reference
* Transaction frequency does not exceed 10,000 transactions per second.



When Not to Use Blockchain

Blockchain technology is a powerful tool, but it is not always the right tool for the job at hand. If you are contemplating using blockchain technology, be sure to evaluate the problem fully. The following conditions are not currently well suited to blockchain-based solutions:

* The process involves confidential data
* The process stores a lot of static data, or the data is quite large
* Rules of transactions change frequently
* The use of external services to gather/store data.

Next, we will discuss in more detail the conditions that are not well suited to blockchain-based solutions.



I. The Process Involves Confidential Data

The biggest advantage and challenge in deploying blockchains is the radical transparency which they provide. Methods are being developed to hide confidential data on the blockchain, while sharing it only to relevant parties. Regulations for data privacy often do not allow for blockchain solutions. A thorough review of the relevant privacy rules governing your business case should be examined to see whether blockchain is appropriate. For example, is leaking data in encrypted form allowed? What level of encryption is required when transmitting data?



II. The Process Stores a Lot of Static Data/Data Is Quite Large

With blockchain technology, the entire database is stored across many nodes in a blockchain system. Because the replication factor of these systems is so high, they are best suited to databases that have many state changes, or store only the minimum necessary amount of information. If the data is relatively static, or if the files to be stored are quite large, a different technical solution may be more appropriate.



III. Rules of Transactions Change Frequently

If the rules around how your business processes are conducted change frequently, or change in unexpected ways, then blockchain may not be well suited for your use case. The rules of transactions in blockchain are often pre-set, and smart contracts do not change execution paths once they have been initiated. Everything that takes place on a blockchain must be completely deterministic. Additionally, blockchains are append-only databases. A relational database may be more suitable if you need to make many changes to your data as the rules of your transactions change.



IV. The Use of External Services to Gather/Store Data

A blockchain smart contract does not currently initiate the retrieval of external data. Instead, one or more trusted parties ("oracles") must create a transaction which embeds that data in the chain. This data is often gathered and stored in a traditional database by the oracle. Any interaction between a blockchain and the outside world is restricted to regular database operations.

In other words, an oracle pushes data onto the blockchain, rather than a smart contract pulling it in. Once the oracle pushes the data, every node will have an identical copy of this data. This allows for the data to be safely used in a smart contract computation. While oracles allow for blockchain interface with external data, they undermine the goal of a decentralized system. Examine when such a trusted authority should be retained. When the trusted authority would or should be retained, efficiencies in the blockchain are not as high as in other applications.



V. Simpler Alternatives

For some applications, other options are simply more efficient. When evaluating blockchain technology, consider whether regular file storage, a centralized database, or database replication with master/slave relationship between the original and copies is suitable. If those structures are suitable, then you can deploy your application with reduced complexity. Do you need a smart contract or are stored procedures written in an extension of SQL sufficient? Similarly, some applications can simply utilize cryptographic methods common in blockchains, without the database replication mechanisms of a blockchain.



Blockchain Decision Path

The following diagram provides generalized, high-level decision points about when to use or not to use blockchain technology for your business.

https://courses.edx.org/assets/courseware/v1/66ec31bc544413fd8d830ba39d355e4f/asset-v1:LinuxFoundationX+LFS171x+3T2020+type@asset+block/Blockchain_Decision_Flowchart.png




