Introduction

In the previous chapter we looked at the Hyperledger tools, which are auxiliary softwares used for things like deploying and maintaining blockchains, examining the data on the ledgers, as well as tools to design, prototype, and extend blockchain networks. In this chapter we will take a look at the Hyperledger libraries for enterprise-grade blockchain deployments.



Learning Objectives

By the end of this chapter, you should be able to:

Understand the role of Hyperledger libraries.
Get a high-level understanding of the Hyperledger libraries (as of November 2020): Hyperledger Aries, Hyperledger Quilt, Hyperledger Transact, and Hyperledger Ursa.



Hyperledger Aries

Hyperledger Aries "provides a shared, reusable, and interoperable tool kit designed for initiatives and solutions focused on creating, transmitting and storing verifiable digital credentials. It is infrastructure for blockchain-rooted, peer-to-peer interactions; it's not a blockchain and it's not an application. This open source project joined the Hyperledger greenhouse in May 2019 and was initially contributed by developers from the Sovrin Foundation, the Government of British Columbia, and other Indy community developers.

Hyperledger Aries is related to both Hyperledger Indy and Hyperledger Ursa (we will talk about this project later in this chapter). This project aims "to change the client layers in Hyperledger Indy to be interoperable with other identity projects. The ultimate goal of Hyperledger Aries is to provide a dynamic set of capabilities to store and exchange data related to blockchain-based identity. These capabilities will range from the secured, secret storage of data such as private keys, up to the capability of globally accessible data that can be viewed and accessed by anyone. An example of such support is the creation of a secure storage solution similar to the wallet available in Hyperledger Indy today."

Hyperledger Aries developers aim to eventually have a scalable, searchable storage layer capable of storing other associated data necessary for identity maintenance, such as pictures, health records, or other personal information.



Video: Hyperledger Quilt



Hyperledger Quilt

Hyperledger Quilt is an open source business blockchain tool that offers interoperability between ledger systems. It is a Java implementation of the Interledger protocol (ILP)  (which is primarily a payments protocol designed to transfer value across distributed ledgers and non-distributed ledgers). Among its key characteristics are:

Provides a set of rules for enabling ledger interoperability with basic escrow semantics
Furnishes a standard for ledger-independent address and data packet formats that enable connectors to route payments
Supplies a framework for designing higher-level use case specific protocols.
Currently in Incubation, Hyperledger Quilt was initially contributed by NTT Data and Ripple in 2017.



Hyperledger Transact

Hyperledger Transact is a transaction execution platform designed to be used as a library or as a component when implementing distributed ledger, including blockchains. Hyperledger framework-level projects and custom distributed ledgers can make use of Transact's advanced transaction execution and state management to simplify the transaction execution code required within their projects or to gain additional features. Transact provides an extensible approach to implementing new smart contract languages called smart contract engines.

Currently in Incubation, it was originally contributed by Bitwise, Cargill, Intel, IBM and Hacera in 2019. Some of the following features are already supported by Hyperledger Transact, or planned in the short-term:

Serial and parallel transaction scheduling
Pluggable state backend
Transaction receipts
Events that can be generated by smart contracts
Support for Sabre and Seth, etc.



Hyperledger Ursa

Hyperledger Ursa is a shared cryptographic library that would enable people and projects to avoid duplicating existing cryptographic work and hopefully increase security in the process. Rather than having each Hyperledger project implement its own cryptographic protocols, it would be more desirable to collaborate on a shared library - this will simplify cross-platform interoperability and increase modularity for distributed ledger platforms.

In the long run, the goal is for Hyperledger Ursa to provide open source blockchain developers with reliable, secure, easy-to-use, and pluggable cryptographic implementations.

The project was proposed by Fujitsu, The Linux Foundation, Sovrin Foundation, Intel, DFINITY, State Street, IBM, Sai Infratel, and Bitwise, and is currently in incubation (since November 2018).




